---
title: Coronavirus is still a thing
layout: post
categories:
- health
- covid-19
- coronavirus
- news
date: '2020-07-09'
---

COVID-19 is raging out of control (especially in the US, but don't think you're
better off in Britain; they are third on the list), but you wouldn't know it by
listening to the government. New York City is in "phase 3" of re-opening, which
included limited re-opening of restaurants (although this has since been
reversed). The reality is that COVID-19 does not give a shit about government
guidelines and will carry on spreading regardless.

As of the end of June there have been over 500,000 confirmed deaths from this
disease, and based on the evidence, even if it doesn't kill you it can take
[months to
recover](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/health/coronavirus-recovery-survivors.html)
and even [leave permanent
damage](https://www.healthline.com/health-news/lifelong-lung-damage-the-serious-covid-19-complication-that-can-hit-people-in-their-20s).
We're still trying to understand the effects COVID-19 has on the body and
research is starting to tell us some horrifying facts. If you think this is
"just like the flu" think again. Some of the more onerous complications that
appear to be caused by COVID-19 are [abnormal blood
clotting](https://www.cidrap.umn.edu/news-perspective/2020/05/autopsies-covid-19-patients-reveal-clotting-concerns)
and [serious and potentially fatal neurological
disorders](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/jul/08/warning-of-serious-brain-disorders-in-people-with-mild-covid-symptoms).
Health workers are [struggling to
cope](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/07/pandemic-experts-are-not-okay/613879/).

All this is to say; you *do not* want to get this disease. So I'm urging you all
to take the necessary precautions. Wash your hands on a regular basis, for at
least 20 seconds. Wear a mask when you need to run an errand (such as shopping
for groceries). If you must socialise, meet people outside (the risks are *much*
lower) and practice social distancing. And for the love of `$deity` *stay out of
the pubs!*
